README.md, before:

# Home assistant Casambi Lights support
![GitHub release (latest by date)](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/hellqvio86/home_assistant_casambi)
[![hacs_badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/HACS-Default-41BDF5.svg)](https://github.com/hacs/integration)
![GitHub issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-raw/hellqvio86/home_assistant_casambi)
![GitHub last commit](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/hellqvio86/aiocasambi)
![GitHub](https://img.shields.io/github/license/hellqvio86/home_assistant_casambi)

This is project is a custom component for supporting Casambi Lights in [Home Assistant](https://www.home-assistant.io/). The component integrates with casambi through its [Cloud API](https://developer.casambi.com/). All lights will be automatically discovered. The light state is sent to Home Assistant mainly by websocket, but this integration also polls Casambis REST API periodically. Home Assistant can be integrated with [Google Home](https://www.home-assistant.io/integrations/google_assistant/), [Amazon Alexa](https://www.home-assistant.io/integrations/alexa/) and much more.

It uses a separate library (also written by me), link to library project:
https://github.com/olofhellqvist/aiocasambi

## Not supported devices
| OEM | Fixture Model | Comment |
| ------------- | ------------- | -----|
| OLIGO  | GRACE PL HA TW  | Integration do not support two dimmers, hardware is needed in order to develop support for controls': [{'name': 'dimmer0', 'type': 'Dimmer', 'value': 0.0}, {'name': 'dimmer1', 'type': 'Dimmer', 'value': 0.0}|


## Supported devices

### Lights
#### Supported modes
These modes are implemented:

* on/off
* brightness
* color temperature
* rgb
* rgbw

### Distribution/Vertical
Distribution/Vertical is supported by using **casambi.light_turn_on** service, see screenshot below:
![Screenshot](/misc/docs/images/screenshot_casambi_turn_on_light_service.png)
## Usage

### Prerequisite
* [Home Assistant](https://www.home-assistant.io/)
* Request developer api key from Casambi: https://developer.casambi.com/
* Setup a site: https://support.casambi.com/support/solutions/articles/12000041325-how-to-create-a-site
* Running Casambi app with gateway enabled: https://support.casambi.com/support/solutions/articles/12000017046-how-to-enable-a-gateway-for-a-network-

### Installation

#### Installation via HACS (recommended)

1. Setup HACS https://hacs.xyz/
2. HACS -> Integrations -> `+` -> Casambi -> Install

#### "Manual" Installation

Just place the directory "casambi" in to your 'custom_components' folder.

### Configuration
Add these lines in your configuration.yml

```
light:
  - platform: casambi
    email: !secret casambi_email
    api_key: !secret casambi_api_key
    network_password : !secret casambi_network_password # The network password
    user_password : !secret casambi_user_password # The site password for your user
```

Optional arguments:
```
light:
  - platform: casambi
    ...
    network_timeout: 30    #default is 300 seconds
    scan_interval: 60      #default is 60 seconds
```

Of course you need to make sure you have the secrets available.

### Troubleshot
#### Enable logging in your configuration.yml
Set logging to debug mode for integration and [aiocasambi](https://github.com/hellqvio86/aiocasambi) (library that the integration uses):
```
logger:
  default: info
  logs:
    homeassistant.components.casambi: debug
    custom_components.casambi: debug
    aiocasambi: debug
```

### Todo list
Links to what needs to be done next: https://developers.home-assistant.io/docs/integration_quality_scale_index/ , https://developers.home-assistant.io/docs/creating_component_code_review/ and https://developers.home-assistant.io/docs/creating_platform_code_review/ .

## Other Casambi projects
* https://github.com/hellqvio86/aiocasambi - The Asynchronous I/O Casambi library that this project uses
* https://github.com/hellqvio86/casambi - Casambi python library
* https://github.com/awahlig/homebridge-casambi Homebridge plugin for Casambi

## Authors

* **Olof Hellqvist** - *Initial work*

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE.md](LICENSE.md) file for details

## Disclaimer
This custom component is neither affiliated with nor endorsed by Casambi.

Commit message:

docs: add info about limited support for OLIGO CURVED light

README.md, after:

# Home assistant Casambi Lights support
![GitHub release (latest by date)](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/hellqvio86/home_assistant_casambi)
[![hacs_badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/HACS-Default-41BDF5.svg)](https://github.com/hacs/integration)
![GitHub issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-raw/hellqvio86/home_assistant_casambi)
![GitHub last commit](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/hellqvio86/aiocasambi)
![GitHub](https://img.shields.io/github/license/hellqvio86/home_assistant_casambi)

This is project is a custom component for supporting Casambi Lights in [Home Assistant](https://www.home-assistant.io/). The component integrates with casambi through its [Cloud API](https://developer.casambi.com/). All lights will be automatically discovered. The light state is sent to Home Assistant mainly by websocket, but this integration also polls Casambis REST API periodically. Home Assistant can be integrated with [Google Home](https://www.home-assistant.io/integrations/google_assistant/), [Amazon Alexa](https://www.home-assistant.io/integrations/alexa/) and much more.

It uses a separate library (also written by me), link to library project:
https://github.com/olofhellqvist/aiocasambi

## Not supported devices

| OEM | Fixture Model | Comment |
| ------------- | ------------- | -----|
| OLIGO  | GRACE PL HA TW  | Integration do not support two dimmers, hardware is needed in order to develop support for controls': [{'name': 'dimmer0', 'type': 'Dimmer', 'value': 0.0}, {'name': 'dimmer1', 'type': 'Dimmer', 'value': 0.0}|
| OLIGO | CURVED| Support for light with two dimmers (up and down light) is currently limited. Both dimmers are controlled simultaneously with one light entity in Home Assistant, no separate control implemented as of today (see #54). |

## Supported devices

### Lights
#### Supported modes
These modes are implemented:

* on/off
* brightness
* color temperature
* rgb
* rgbw

### Distribution/Vertical
Distribution/Vertical is supported by using **casambi.light_turn_on** service, see screenshot below:
![Screenshot](/misc/docs/images/screenshot_casambi_turn_on_light_service.png)
## Usage

### Prerequisite
* [Home Assistant](https://www.home-assistant.io/)
* Request developer api key from Casambi: https://developer.casambi.com/
* Setup a site: https://support.casambi.com/support/solutions/articles/12000041325-how-to-create-a-site
* Running Casambi app with gateway enabled: https://support.casambi.com/support/solutions/articles/12000017046-how-to-enable-a-gateway-for-a-network-

### Installation

#### Installation via HACS (recommended)

1. Setup HACS https://hacs.xyz/
2. HACS -> Integrations -> `+` -> Casambi -> Install

#### "Manual" Installation

Just place the directory "casambi" in to your 'custom_components' folder.

### Configuration
Add these lines in your configuration.yml

```
light:
  - platform: casambi
    email: !secret casambi_email
    api_key: !secret casambi_api_key
    network_password : !secret casambi_network_password # The network password
    user_password : !secret casambi_user_password # The site password for your user
```

Optional arguments:
```
light:
  - platform: casambi
    ...
    network_timeout: 30    #default is 300 seconds
    scan_interval: 60      #default is 60 seconds
```

Of course you need to make sure you have the secrets available.

### Troubleshot
#### Enable logging in your configuration.yml
Set logging to debug mode for integration and [aiocasambi](https://github.com/hellqvio86/aiocasambi) (library that the integration uses):
```
logger:
  default: info
  logs:
    homeassistant.components.casambi: debug
    custom_components.casambi: debug
    aiocasambi: debug
```

### Todo list
Links to what needs to be done next: https://developers.home-assistant.io/docs/integration_quality_scale_index/ , https://developers.home-assistant.io/docs/creating_component_code_review/ and https://developers.home-assistant.io/docs/creating_platform_code_review/ .

## Other Casambi projects
* https://github.com/hellqvio86/aiocasambi - The Asynchronous I/O Casambi library that this project uses
* https://github.com/hellqvio86/casambi - Casambi python library
* https://github.com/awahlig/homebridge-casambi Homebridge plugin for Casambi

## Authors

* **Olof Hellqvist** - *Initial work*

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE.md](LICENSE.md) file for details

## Disclaimer
This custom component is neither affiliated with nor endorsed by Casambi.
